the Israeli military says it has rescued
another of the hostages taken in the
October 7 terrorist attacks led by Hamas
Israeli officials said kiad faran aladi
a member of the country's Arab beduin
minority had been freed following what
they said was a complex rescue operation
he's now recovering in hospital where
his medical condition has been described
as normal Hamas is thought to be still
holding around 110 people though some
are believed to be dead
here's more from Israeli Defense Forces
spokesman Daniel
hagari several hours ago IDF and Chinet
forces have rescued the hostage K fahan
aladi in a special courageous and
complex rescue
operation 52-year-old resident of Rahat
father of
11 fahan has arrived in Saka Medical
Center and his condition is good and
there he met his
family journalist balik sladin joins us
from Tel Aviv welcome back balik and
what more can you add to
that yes uh so apparently uh there is a
lot of speculation about how faran aladi
was rescued and uh there is also a lot
of military censorship on these um
details but what we can talk right now
about is that he was found in a tunnel
uh alone when we say in a tunnel alone
first of all this is the first operation
where the Israeli forces are able to
rescue a captive or hostage in a tunnel
uh because all three previous rescue
operations uh they have rescued the uh
hostages from above the ground which
means they inside um houses or military
compounds and not actually in a tunnel
so he is the first one to be rescued
from a tunnel second he was found alone
now when we say found alone so either
his captives has left ran away because
of the advancements of the Israeli
troops or maybe they were killed in
previous operations and that's why he
was there alone also another possibility
that he just ran away from them now uh
some Palestinian media Outlets are
talking about that Hamas freed him
because he is an Arab but it's uh very
uh questionable because after all they
had 10 months or 11 months actually
since he was a captive to find out that
he's an Arab and to free him uh this is
happening right now and this is a rescue
operation what's being said about his
condition well um the Soko Hospital in
Bersa in the South said that he is his
his condition excuse me in general is
fine his relatives are saying that he
lost weight and that is also to be
expained when we look at his photos
before October 7th and right now so he
lost a lot of weight actually but in
general they are saying that he is okay
he landed there he is being of course um
treated right now and his first
questions were about his family
presumably this news has been met with
um
Jubilation yes it is definitely that's
only one hand let's say because on one
hand yes lots of Joy lots of people are
shreding tears today of course his
family uh even some lifeguards on the
beaches are using their megaphones to
announce these um announcements and
people there are cheering out of joy and
we can see that but on the other hand it
says also that 108 other hostages are
still in captivity in hamas's captivity
in Gaza and uh people are worried about
their conditions and their safety of
course and that's why that is a reminder
today that there are still people there
held uh in Gaza and they should be freed
at some point or another either by a
rescue operation as we've seen today but
more safely in a deal thank you for that
bag balag sadine